hello everyone and welcome to this
week's After Effects scripting tutorial
today we're going to be taking a look at
how we can embed project info inside of
our scripts what I mean by this is
essentially we're going to store an
entire script or set of instructions
inside of one line of code in binary
format
the overall goal today is to be able to
take a script we've already created that
has some functions to create a
composition and layers and once we run
it our goal is to just embed it in the
script so that we can create it from
scratch now a lot of times when you have
a script and you have a bunch of say
presets like in this case I have this
lower third preset example a lot of
times people will have dozens of
different presets which they'll have
external files to link to a lot of times
users don't want to install these
external files or don't want to have to
deal with multiple files so one cool
thing we can do is embed other scripts
or content inside of our own script so
in this case I have in binary JSX bin
format a previous script which will
generate a lower thirds composition then
I'm going to go ahead and import it by
creating a temporary file that's just a
JSX file and then we're going to write
our jsx bit data run the file and when
we run it it's going to execute the code
and open up the comp for us so this is
the file that actually creates it's
basically a JSX file with all of our JSX
bin code the reason we put all of this
inside of here is because we need
something to run if we just put in the
binary information and said we want to
evaluate this well it's not going to
work we actually need to push it into a
file so first let's take a look at how
we can take a pre-existing script or set
of instructions and then quickly and
easily run slash import that into
after-effects
so I often like to use my alert hello
JSX for these kind of things but I'm
going to go ahead and add a few things
to it just so we can make sure it's
doing more so I'm just going to do a
couple things first I'm going to create
a composition which will be equal to AB
dot project dots items add comp and
following the guide for add comp we
first need a name
a width height pixel aspect ratio
duration let's do ten seconds and a
frame rate 30 so this will just create a
test composition for us now let's go
ahead and create a test layer so I'll
just save our layer and we're gonna add
this layer to our composition layers
we're just gonna say add a solid and
again if I go into my guide and go to
add solid you can see we need the color
name width etc so for the color I'll
just make it white here one one one the
name we'll just do test solid and then
for the dimensions I'm just going to do
the exact same thing as our composition
alright so that will create a layer and
lastly let's just add a quick effect to
the layer so I'll grab my layered
effects and add a property let's add
what should we add let's add let's just
add a transform effect which I believe
the match name is adobe transform 2 so
just to ensure this this is working I'm
going to start a fresh project here and
make sure that we can create our comp
and such I also want to grab my comp and
open it in the window so compen in
viewer and that will just bring it to
the front of attention in after-effects
so if I go ahead and run this see we got
an error
looks like transform 2 is not proper so
real quick I'll just create a
composition a layer and add transform
and this is just a quick little tip what
I do when I don't know something I just
create a new script really quick and I
get the data so in this case I need to
get the effect of this layer the match
name so I'm going to grab a project
active item we're gonna select the comp
we're going to grab the first layer and
the first effect and grab the match name
then a load of my JavaScript console run
it and it's geometry to not transform to
so we'll change that to Adobe geometry
too and now start over here we get a
hello and we also have our new comp
called tests with our tests solid in it
so this is going to be sort of the code
that we're going to use
it's going to be our binary code that
will execute inside of our script itself
without requiring external files so I'll
go ahead and save that again it's on my
desktop let's not forget that the next
step is to convert it to this binary
format it's a very easy step I actually
need to open the file again and I'm
going to click on export as binary then
I'm going to just save it will just say
alert hello table JSX bin click on save
and now we have our JSX bin which is in
this sort of format with lots of encoded
text so next up let's go ahead and
create a new script for our main script
here create a variable called script and
this is going to be our binary
information now if I load up my hello
JSX bin and copy it and go back into my
script and paste it you can see it's
actually created multi-line and it's
kind of a pain that we're gonna have to
go in here and make this all one line
see we have to go to each line here and
make sure it matches up so that it's a
valid variable and one issue you might
run into is if you have a giant script
that's more than you know seven lines of
code this would obviously take forever
so what you can do you can either create
a script to remove all of the enters or
you can use a script that I've
previously linked to which I'll link to
again and that is the binary image
encoder if you go ahead and put in your
path here let's go to C if you go ahead
and put in your path here put in my
desktop and my path is alert hello dot
JSX bin and now if I run this it's going
to give me a new string with actually
the entire bit of data I need and this
time I don't have to remove all of the
end lines everything will be a single
line for us so again I'll link this in
the description below
you just need to put in the path then
the file name inside of that path and
the output path because if you have a
string too long to put inside of the
console here I also have a folder with a
backup where we store it as well
all right so now that we've got our
variable established this is literally
all we need this is the entire script
functionality right here this entire
thing here is our embedded information
so next up we need to actually run this
information so what I'll do is create a
function called import I'll just say
import scripts and inside of here I'm
going to go ahead and create a new
variable called script file and this is
going to be sort of a temporary file we
create run it and then we're going to
delete it so for this file we're just
going to reference a location which this
case let's do our desktop again desktop
or we can actually create a variable
called path or we can predefined our
path
so let's actually do that desktop and
then now instead of saying desktop I can
say path and then add our filename so
what do we want to call this let's just
call it test script spot JSX and I
should create the file for us now I'm
going to grab my script file and open it
we want to open it to write so we can
write some data inside of it and then
once we have it open we're going to
actually call the function right and
inside of here we're going to write our
script which is our binary text here so
after we've written the data to our
script we need to actually close the
file so we don't have any memory links
and then finally to check that this is
working we just need to call our
function import script now this should
take our text put it into this JSX file
and write it now if I load up my test
script out JSX it just created you can
see we have our string inside of here
all right so all that's left to do now
is to run our file so we're going to use
the dollar sign operator or the helper
object where as a dollar sign dot eval
file and it's going to just take in an
argument of the file and since we just
created the file with all of our data we
use our script file now it's going to
create the file run it and now let's go
ahead and remove the file to do this
I'll just grab my script file and I'll
say dot
remove and if you're not sure if you can
use a certain property again you can
just check here it says file dot remove
and we do want to remove a file all
right so let's go ahead and clear up
after-effects here and run the script
you can see we say alert hello and we
now have our test comp with our test
solid and if we go to check if we have
our test script JSX it's not going to be
there because we've gone ahead and said
run this file and then remove it so
we're sort of doing silent operations
the user wouldn't even know that there
was a bunch of new files being created
so you can take this concept and grow to
as large as you want
I have scripts where I have over 50 of
these binary presets and it doesn't
actually slow it down that much even
though each of these presets is actually
thousands of lines of code so if you
don't want to use external files and
tell the user that they need to install
all of these external files in different
folder locations and go ahead and use
this embedding format but that's going
to do it for this week's After Effects
scripting tutorial I hope you guys
enjoyed if you did make sure you hit
that thumbs up button if you've got any
ideas for future tutorials or questions
or comments leave them down below and as
always be sure to hit the subscribe
button and the bell next to it to be
notified of new uploads thanks again for
watching guys and we will see you in the
next one